it's almost election day
but not all
Americans will be heading to the polls
historically only about 4 and 10 voters
turnout for midterm elections here are
three reasons why first you might just
not care either you feel your vote won't
matter or you're not a fan of politics
in general and as a result you stay home
I do not plan on voting. I don't really get into politics
this is
Anna Heaton she's a college student in
West Virginia a state that consistently
has one of the lowest voter turnout rates
I feel like my one vote isn't
actually going to make a difference
and voting or not voting is something that
tends to be passed on from generation to generation
this leads us to reason
number two you don't care about politics
and the politicians in turn don't care
about you
we know that when institutions
elect or electoral organizations when
they try to mobilize people turnout as
higher and different kinds of people
vote so if you don't live in a
competitive district or you don't belong
to a group they care about you might
just be in a group they've given up on
which means they might not even try to
reach out and win you over and this
brings us to our third and final reason
maybe you do care and maybe politicians
care about you back but your state's
election laws make it really hard to
cast a ballot in the name of preventing
voter fraud many states have made it
difficult to register limited pulling
times and taking names off the list of
registered voters without telling people
they've been removed there will be some
who don't vote because they don't like
the choice on offer but don't blame low
voter turnout purely on those who can't
be bothered